\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename openvrml-gtkplug.info
@include version.texi
@settitle openvrml-gtkplug @value{VERSION}
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual is for openvrml-gtkplug (version @value{VERSION},
@value{UPDATED}), which provides a VRML/X3D browser as a GtkPlug
component that can be used in any GTK+ application.

Copyright @copyright{} 2006 Braden McDaniel

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.  A copy
of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free
Documentation License.''
@end quotation
@end copying

@c Define a new index for options.
@defcodeindex op
@c Combine everything into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the
@c concept index).
@syncodeindex op cp

@dircategory Miscellaneous
@direntry
* openvrml-gtkplug: (openvrml-gtkplug). A VRML/X3D browser component for GTK+ applications.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title openvrml-gtkplug
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Braden McDaniel (@email{braden@@endoframe.com})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents


@ifnottex
@node Top
@top openvrml-gtkplug

This manual is for openvrml-gtkplug (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}).
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::                    General purpose and information.
* Invoking openvrml-gtkplug::   How to run @code{openvrml-gtkplug}.
* Servicing Requests::          How to respond to requests from the component.
* Problems::		        Getting help and reporting bugs.
* Copying This Manual::         Copying and sharing this documentation.
* Concept Index::	        Index of concepts.
@end menu


@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@cindex overview

@code{openvrml-gtkplug} provides a VRML/X3D browser as a GtkPlug
component that can be used in any GTK+ application.
@code{openvrml-gtkplug} communicates with the host application via
pipes from its @code{stdout} and to its @code{stdin}.  The host
application is responsible for fetching network resources and sending
these to the component.

@code{openvrml-gtkplug} uses the OpenVRML VRML/X3D runtime.  For the
latest updates and other information, please visit OpenVRML on the
World Wide Web at @url{http://openvrml.org}.

@cindex authors
@cindex McDaniel, Braden
@code{openvrml-gtkplug} was written by Braden McDaniel.


@node Invoking openvrml-gtkplug
@chapter Invoking @code{openvrml-gtkplug}

@cindex invoking
@cindex options
@cindex usage
@cindex help

The format for running the @code{openvrml-gtkplug} program is:

@example
openvrml-gtkplug [@var{options}] @var{gtk-socket-id}
@end example

@var{gtk-socket-id} is the XID of a GtkSocket.

@section Options

@code{openvrml-gtkplug} supports the following options:

@subsection Help Options

@table @option
@item --help
@itemx -?
@opindex --help
@opindex -?
Show help options.

@item --help-all
@opindex --help-all
Show all help options.

@item --help-gtk
@opindex --help-gtk
Show GTK+ options.
@end table

@subsection GTK+ Options

@table @option
@item --class=@var{class}
@opindex --class
Program class as used by the window manager.

@item --name=@var{name}
@opindex --name
Program name as used by the window manager.

@item --screen=@var{screen}
@opindex --screen
X screen to use.

@item --sync
@opindex --sync
Make X calls synchronous.

@item --gtk-module=@var{modules}
@opindex --gtk-module
Load additional GTK+ modules.

@item --g-fatal-warnings
@opindex --g-fatal-warnings
Make all warnings fatal.
@end table

@subsection Application Options

@table @option
@item --version
@opindex --version
Print the version information and exit.

@item --display=@var{display}
@opindex --display
X display to use.
@end table

@section Invoking From Another Program

In general @code{openvrml-gtkplug} is invoked from another program
which establishes pipes to @code{openvrml-gtkplug}'s @code{stdin} and
from its @code{stdout}.  This can be done using the typical
@code{fork}-@code{exec} mechanism.  If you are using GLib, the
function @code{g_spawn_async_with_pipes} nicely encapsulates the
required logic:

@example
gchar * working_directory;
gchar ** argv;
gchar ** envp = 0;
GPid * child_pid = 0;
gint standard_input, standard_output;
gint * standard_error = 0;
GError * error = 0;
gboolean succeeded;

working_directory = g_get_current_dir();
argv = g_malloc(sizeof (gchar *) * 3)
argv[0] = g_strdup("/usr/libexec/openvrml-gtkplug");
argv[1] = g_strdup_printf("%d", gtk_socket_id);
argv[2] = 0;

succeeded = g_spawn_async_with_pipes(working_directory,
                                     argv,
                                     envp,
                                     0,
                                     0,
                                     0,
                                     child_pid,
                                     &standard_input,
                                     &standard_output,
                                     standard_error,
                                     &error);
@end example


@node Servicing Requests
@chapter Servicing Requests

@cindex request
@cindex request channel
@cindex command
@cindex command channel

@section Requests and Commands

@code{openvrml-gtkplug} relies on the host application for fetching
network resources.  @code{openvrml-gtkplug} will send a @dfn{request}
for a network resource via its @code{stdout}.  As such, the pipe from
@code{openvrml-gtkplug}'s @code{stdout} to the host application is
referred to as the @dfn{request channel}.

In general (and as the name implies), requests elicit some response
from the host application.  The pipe to @code{openvrml-gtkplug}'s
@code{stdin} is used for such responses as well other @dfn{commands}.
This pipe is referred to as the @dfn{command channel}.

Requests and commands are terminated by an end-of-line.  They take the
general form:

@example
@var{command-name} [@var{param1} [@var{param2} ... ]]
@end example

@cindex get-url
@section The @code{get-url} Request

@code{openvrml-gtkplug} sends a @code{get-url} request to indicate to
the host application that it needs a particular network resource.
This request takes the following form:

@example
get-url @var{url} [@var{target}]
@end example

@table @var
@item url
The URL being requested.

@item target
The name of a window.
@end table

The @var{url} parameter is the URL being requested.  The optional
@var{target} parameter is the name of a window of the host
application.  If @var{target} is not meaningful to the host
application, it can be ignored.

The @code{get-url} request expects a response in the form of a
@code{get-url-result} command.  @code{openvrml-gtkplug} is unable to
process the availability of the resource until it receives this
command; so it should be issued as soon as possible.

@section Commands

@cindex get-url-result
@subsection @code{get-url-result}

The @code{get-url-result} command should be sent immediately in
response to a @code{get-url} request.  This command should indicate
the basic success or failure of initiating the resource request.
@strong{It is not intended to indicate a response from a server}.
Rather, it should be used to indicate whether the @var{URL} can be
processed at all.  A URL might not be usable if it is syntactically
invalid or its scheme is unsupported.

This command takes the following form:

@example
get-url-result @var{url} @var{result}
@end example

@table @var
@item url
The URL from the @code{get-url} request.
@item result
An integer value.
@end table

The @var{url} parameter should match the URL received in the
corresponding @code{get-url} request.  The @var{result} is an integer
value; 0 indicates success, while nonzero indicates failure.

@cindex new-stream
@subsection @code{new-stream}

The @code{new-stream} command indicates to @code{openvrml-gtkplug}
that the host application intends to begin writing data associated
with a requested resource.  @code{new-stream} should be sent after
@code{get-url-result} has been sent for a stream and before
@code{write} is sent for any of the stream data.

This command takes the following form:

@example
new-stream @var{stream-id} @var{type} @var{url}
@end example

@table @var
@item stream-id
An integer identifier for the stream.
@item type
The MIME media type of the stream.
@item url
The URL associated with the stream.
@end table

The @var{stream-id} is an integer identifier for the stream.  This
identifier will be used subsequently by the @code{write} and
@code{destroy-stream} commands to refer to the stream.

The @var{type} parameter is the MIME media type of the stream.  The
@var{url} parameter should match the @var{url} parameter of a
previously issued @code{get-url-result} command.

@cindex write
@subsection @code{write}

The @code{write} command writes data to a stream for which
@code{new-stream} has already been issued.  This command takes the
following form:

@example
write @var{stream_id} @var{length}
@var{data}
@end example

@table @var
@item stream-id
An integer identifier for the stream.
@item length
The number of bytes in @var{data}
@item data
The stream data.
@end table

The @var{stream-id} parameter is an integer identifier corresponding
to a stream for which @code{new-stream} has already been called (and
for which @code{destroy-stream} has @emph{not} been called.

@code{write} is unique among commands in that the end-of-line
character does not terminate the command; rather, it marks the
beginning of the @var{data} parameter.  The command ends at the end of
the @var{data} parameter, which is indicated by the @var{length}
parameter.

@code{write} may be called multiple times for the same stream with
consecutive blocks of data for the stream.

@cindex destroy-stream
@subsection @code{destroy-stream}

@code{destroy-stream} should be sent for a @var{stream-id} after no
more @code{write} commands will be issued for it.  This command takes
the following form:

@example
destroy-stream @var{stream-id}
@end example

@table @var
@item stream-id
An integer identifier for a stream.
@end table

@var{stream-id} should identify a stream for which @code{new-stream}
has been sent, but for which @code{destroy-stream} has @emph{not}
already been sent.

@node Problems
@chapter Getting Help and Reporting Bugs

@cindex bug reporting
@cindex problems
@cindex reporting bugs

@section Mailing List

As part of the OpenVRML package, @code{openvrml-gtkplug} is discussed
on the OpenVRML development mailing list,
@email{openvrml-develop@@lists.sourceforge.net}.  Questions about usage
of any part of the OpenVRML package are welcome here.  This mailing
list permits posting only by subscribers in order to curb spam.
Subscription information can be found at
@url{http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/openvrml-develop}.

@section Reporting Bugs

Please report any bugs you encounter using
@url{http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=add&group_id=7151&atid=107151,
OpenVRML's SourceForge bug tracker}.

@cindex checklist for bug reports
Please include enough information for the maintainers to reproduce the
problem.  Generally speaking, that means:

@itemize @bullet
@item The version number of openvrml-gtkplug (which you can find by
running @w{@samp{openvrml-gtkplug --version}}) and any other
program(s) or manual(s) involved.
@item Hardware and operating system names and versions.
@item The contents of any input files necessary to reproduce the bug.
@item The expected behavior and/or output.
@item A description of the problem and samples of any erroneous output.
@item Any unusual options you gave to @command{configure}.
@item Anything else that you think would be helpful.
@end itemize

When in doubt whether something is needed or not, include it.  It's
better to include too much than to leave out something important.

@section Submitting Patches

@cindex patches, contributing
Patches are welcome; if possible, please make them with @samp{@w{diff
-u}} (@pxref{Top,, Overview, diff, Comparing and Merging Files}) and
include @file{ChangeLog} entries (@pxref{Change Log,,, emacs, The GNU
Emacs Manual}).  Please follow the existing coding style.

The preferred means of submitting a patch is using
@url{http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=add&group_id=7151&atid=307151,
OpenVRML's SourceForge Patch Manager}.


@node Copying This Manual
@appendix Copying This Manual

@menu
* GNU Free Documentation License::  License for copying this manual.
@end menu

@include fdl.texi


@node Concept Index
@unnumbered Concept Index

@printindex cp

@bye
